It is 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, in
Shenzhen, and here in Hong Kong. You're
watching the China Show. I'm David
Ingles. Good morning to all of you.
We're counting down to the open of
markets in greater [music] China. Let's
get to your top stories today. Stocks
across the Asia-Pacific, as you can see,
on the up, tracking gains we had on
[music] Wall Street on Friday. And hopes
growing for a year-end Santa Claus
rally. Now, China's Moore's Threads
unveiling a new generation chip lineup
set to challenge AI developers'
dependence on Nvidia.
Also ahead, the US pursues a third
tanker near Venezuela as President Trump
intensifies the oil blockade [music]
targeting Nicolas Maduro's government.
And coming up as well this hour, an
exclusive [music] with the co-CEO of
Chinese biotech firm
Jacob Biopharma on its [music] global
license deal with AstraZeneca. And of
course, opportunities they see in the
health care sector.
>> [music]
>> Welcome to the program. We're straight
into breaking news, straight out of
beds. We're looking at loan prime rates
unchanged. We have the one and you have
the five-year uncapped
kept unchanged. Okay, we're mixing up
words. So, things get better from here.
We're looking at the These are the prime
lending rates from Chinese borrowers.
We're looking at the one-year at 3%.
And the five-year being kept at 3 and
1/2%. They have kept, of course, those
prime rates unchanged for several months
now.
The take, though, as we look ahead to
next year is that the broader
conversation is that you are getting
into this phase of the year where
typically you should be getting a bump
up seasonally. You are getting the
opposite in terms of softer numbers
coming through. And
the sort of big context takeaway coming
through out of Bloomberg Economics, they
They this out, by the way, before
uh we did get this breaking news, is
that do expect I'm just going to
paraphrase here, do expect monetary
easing going into 2026. In fact, just
putting a number to that, flip the page,
please. I think they're looking at uh
rate cut next year as guiding rates
lower, I think 10 to 15 basis points is
the general take going into 2026. All
that is to say uh as we wrap up this
year where really monetary policy has
provided somewhat of a decent tailwind
that certainly goes away from a macro
perspective next year. Uh we are
wrapping up the year which has been
fantastic for EM specifically uh with
gains. As you can see, across the board,
Nikkei's up two, Taiwan coming in line 1
and 1/2%. Korea's bottom of your screen
is coming up, too. S&P's up for a third
day, a quarter of 1% or net S&P 6900 as
far as that is concerned. Euro, you have
the euro yen, uh you have the US
two-year yield coming through as well.
Uh really on the back of what
conversations around you have a rate cut
into next year. The question is there's
a two rate cut being priced in into
markets going into 2026. Is there upside
or downside risk uh to that number? Uh
JGB yields, of course, we topped the 2%
handle in case you missed that, of of
course, last week. We have Tokyo CPI
coming through on Friday, so just keep
that in mind as far as the uh agenda is
concerned. Right, commodities very much
in focus. Up arrow story last night,
check Brent West Texas and specifically
silver. There we go, 1.3%. This is on
the back of geopolitical tensions as it
pertains to well, for one,
uh you had air strikes over the weekend
in Syria, major one at that. And number
two is we're still continuing to follow
this story in Venezuela, of course, or
off Venezuela. Specifically, the US is
pursuing a third oil tanker
uh
really to put the pressures there. Flip
the page, please, on the government as
far as financing or the major source of
financing is concerned. And it's looking
like we are going to get some gains
going into the Monday open today. And
yeah, if you missed it, yes, we are at
703. Uh we were at 706 early last week,
so you know, a seven handle by the end
of this year uh won't be too much of a
hurdle to jump. 184 right now on the
Chinese 10-year yield. Um, let's please
have a look at the agenda today. So, we
obviously sectors to watch. You have
platforms uh platform names. We'll talk
about that in a moment. Semiconductors,
you had this big announcement, of
course,
out of more threats on the weekend.
Apart from that, uh in terms of data,
you have inflation coming through out of
Hong Kong. That's number one to watch.
And uh let what else is on deck? Do we
have it up? Three trading debuts today
uh here in Hong Kong. And of course, the
broader conversation is around
Yes, uh we have been struggling to break
out of a price range on the benchmark
itself, but the vol has been falling
consistently
over the last couple of weeks or so. The
Hang Seng Volatility Index down to
lowest level in about 4 and 1/2 years.
Okay, that's the agenda for today. We'll
table that for now and have a look at
the big story today we're tracking in
China. You have more threats, of course,
a massive listing, massive gains uh the
first week of trade unveiling or
introducing this new generation of chips
aimed at reducing developers' dependence
on uh hardware coming out of Nvidia. Min
Min Low, our China correspondent, has
the story for us uh in terms of the
announcement. And what are the new
products are talking about here, Min
Min?
>> Yeah, so they uh announced two new
generations of chips and a new GPU
architecture. So, the chips are named
Lushan and Huashan. They're named after
Chinese mountains. Uh the Huashan chips
are for AI inferencing and the company
CEO said that it is better than Nvidia's
Hopper series chips like the H100 and
H200, and it's closely catching up with
the Blackwell series chips, which are
the the most advanced chips currently
available. So, this is pretty
significant because if Chinese companies
can already make chips that are better
than the H200, that eliminates the need
for them to buy from Nvidia. Even though
Nvidia just got approval to sell those
chips to China, right? And we know the
Chinese government was, according to
sources, assessing demand from Chinese
companies and asking them to justify why
they have to buy from Nvidia. So, this
is certainly an important development.
They also announced the Lushan chips,
which are for graphics processing,
saying that's 15 times better
performance for gaming. And also a new
GPU architecture that can link together
at least 100,000 chips. And they're
saying that that increases computation
power by at least 50% and is 10 times
more energy efficient as well.
>> Okay.
We have a couple of more stories to get
to here. So, let's have a look at this
this this Chinese military list
that some Republican lawmakers have put
forward. There are some not so new
names, but there's some new names
involved there. So, what do we know
about that story?
>> Yeah, so the Pentagon renews this list
every year, and the House Select
Committee on China is calling for at
least 19 Chinese companies to be listed
as Chinese military companies, and they
include the likes of Deep Sea, they
include Unitree, which is a robotics
company,
Wuxi as well, a farmer company.
So, pretty wide-ranging different
different sectors.
And it shows you that ongoing
competition between US and China. I
believe
Hesai was one of the few companies that
had sued the Pentagon claiming that they
have no ties with the US military. And
they were successfully delisted, but
then they were relisted immediately. And
it shows you how difficult it is to
challenge these labels by the Pentagon.
It does not result in any immediate ban
for these Chinese companies, but it is a
signal to foreign companies, to US
companies,
a warning sign to them not to work with
these companies and the risk associated
with working with a Chinese military
company. So, certainly something that
that could wasn't tied between the two
sides.
>> Okay. Final story, and sort of do
sort of corner you into the third story
here. A platform company. So, so we know
the story around Ant Involution, price
competition, what have you. And this is
really the latest one on the weekend.
What do we know about efforts to
maybe backstop some of the some of the
competition as far as the price price
price
>> the Chinese regulator had issued a new
rule for a new set of rules for platform
companies
asking them not to impose unnecessary
restrictions on merchants to govern
their pricing behavior. So for example,
they're not allowed to tell a merchant
that okay, you can't sell your products
for cheaper on a on a competitive
platform and they can't punish these
merchants by delisting their products or
making their products less visible on
their platforms or raising their fees.
At the same time the rules also require
the platform companies to clearly state
the promotions without exaggeration. So
all of these are meant to protect
consumers and also smaller sellers that
rely on these platform companies and the
purpose really is to stabilize
you know, their margins, ensure fair
competition to ensure sustainable growth
for the entire sector.
>> Minmin Thank you so much Minmin. with
just a list really of the areas of the
market to watch as we go into the
the open today. That is just to say of
course despite what you really you have
is really a a banner year. We have
Chinese equities really coming back into
the spotlight. We started with AI there
but some question marks around some
parts of this equity market, platforms,
price competition. Let's put everything
together for you and where we stand
going into 2026. Joining us now
is Iyan Wong, chief EM and China
strategist at Alpine Macro joining us
here. Good morning from the Asia
Pacific. So thank you for joining us. I
I know let me just
make reference to your note about six
weeks ago, first or second week of
November where you did observe of course
China's hot again.
You've been on this whirlwind global
tour speaking to investors including I
should mention of course here Hong Kong,
China and Singapore. What's your overall
sense of what people are looking for in
the China story going into next year?
>> Um
I think the [clears throat] biggest
takeaway is that global investors are
becoming more interested in China again.
Uh in 2023
and 2024,
uh China was deemed as uninvestable. Uh
back then the economy was bad,
geopolitical situation was bad,
uh the market was not really performing,
so people were not really interested in
China at all. Um [clears throat] but in
the in my recent trips, in my meetings
with clients, with investors, I can get
a sense that investors are becoming more
interested on China. China is back on
the radar,
uh and I think this is a very important
change because uh people are still very
very underweight China. Uh and um so if
they're interested in China raising
raising exposure from a very low
starting point, uh I think that that can
drive a lot of capital inflow into the
Chinese equity market. Um so I think the
biggest question mark obviously is the
market has gone up a lot, right? So
actually the market bottomed
uh February 2024. Um so the market has
been rising for over 2 year almost 2
years.
Um so there the question is whether uh
investors should chase the market um
because they didn't really have any
exposure at all. So now the market just
keep rising, so I think the the the
biggest concern is whether the going
into 20 2026, whether the bull market
can can continue.
>> And and what in your sense
what do you suspect will be the
So so we know about the the lack of
inflation story. We know a lot about you
know, liquidity
abundant liquidity that has managed to
offset most if not all of the former
story. And and I'm curious to see what
I'm curious to hear what what you think
in terms of the big question marks and
what resolves itself going into going
into next year.
>> Well, I think I think really the the the
biggest change
um, since last year is probably, uh,
investors began to realize China is a,
you know, it's almost imperative to
invest in this kind of G2 world. Right?
So, for example, you know, you
mentioned,
um, the Chinese chip makers.
Um,
so, all of a sudden, you see,
uh, Chinese companies are making,
uh, very advanced chips. You know, a few
years ago, that's un- unthinkable. Um,
so, regardless [clears throat] of this,
uh, this story, regardless the cyclical
profile of the Chinese economy, um, now
you do have a two, um,
uh, systems uh, parallel to each other.
One is the US system, the other is the
Chinese system. So, I think now people
began to realize that every investor has
had so much exposure to the US market,
but has so little exposure to the
Chinese market. So, I think this kind
of, you know, very lopsided,
uh, um, allocation, uh, is one of the
most important, uh, incentives for
investors to look at China. You know,
for example, the beginning of the year,
we had deep seek moment. That's when
really began to draw uh, global
investors' attention on China, not just
focusing on the weaker part of the
economy, not just the real estate market
deflation, but also there are a lot of
growth sectors. So, I think that's
really driving a lot of attentions,
uh, also a lot of, uh, capital inflows.
>> And is is that distinction visible
between the groups of investors that are
more familiar with [snorts] the Chinese
market, let's call them domestic
players, of course, the home bias. And
how does that story, and how is the
appreciation of that story, how does it
change as you look further away from
China?
>> Um,
>> [clears throat]
>> yeah, so,
I think the China un- uninvestable story
was mainly concentrated in the US, uh,
among US investors and some European
investors.
>> Okay.
>> Um so because um
because, you know, most of it was
because of geopolitical tensions,
geopolitical environment. And for
European investors, uh the China's role
in the US-Russia
Russia-Ukraine war,
uh China was deemed very unfriendly. I I
think that was the Like I remember uh in
those years when I was talking to
investors,
even even though these investors they
didn't share the gloomy views on China,
but they were concerned about so-called
reputational risk of of investing in
China. So, I think now this this is uh
gradually changing. In Asia, in EM,
investors are Investors' view on China
have always been more nuanced.
>> Yeah, okay. So, the [clears throat] the
the
the common denominator going into next
year globally, and you have an EM
mandate, too, is it it it does seem like
the tailwinds from
easy monetary policy will will will
somewhat not be as big a part of the
conversation next year as most central
banks either pause or have ended their
their easing cycle. How do we distill
the the tailwinds coming throughout of
looser policy, and what does it mean
for, you know, the weaker dollar story,
which has helped, and, you know,
appetite for EM assets next year?
>> Yeah, I I I think I think the dollar is
a big story. I think if the dollar
continues to weaken, uh then obviously
you know, uh global investors'
interest on EM assets uh will will
increase.
Um
uh so, I I think that can still be a
factor. On the other hand, I think the
Fed will continue to ease. We believe
the US inflation will continue to fall,
so that will allow the Fed to ease. And
then, you see a lot of EM countries,
their real interest rates are still very
very high, right? So, I I don't think
the uh monetary easing tailwind uh will
diminish much uh next year, especially
for a lot of high yielding
uh EM countries, especially like in in
Latin America and South Africa. In
China, in China, the monetary easing may
not be
a big story, but a lot of the major
headwinds that we have had this year
will diminish. Right? So, you know,
housing has been in such a long, deep
slump. Consumer confidence has been so
weak for so long. And Chinese exports to
the US this year contracted a lot. So,
these are really the major headwinds for
the Chinese economy this year. But most
likely going into next year, all these
three negative
factors will will either stabilize or
even improve. So, I think on the China
front,
I I don't really think monetary policy
easing will place
an important role because, you know, the
problem now is demand for loans is very
weak. It's not the price It's not
interest rate. It's It's It's It's not
affordable. It's demand is weak. But if
these three
headwinds
will gradually turn into some kind of
tailwind, then I think the Chinese
economy will perform a lot better.
>> That That's a big if, and I'm glad we
end on that. Can I just ask you a little
bit more on the housing market and
consumer confidence? We know if that
goes away, it doesn't matter if the PBOC
is tightening interest rates. You know,
the market will rally if those two
things recover. What gives you the
confidence, apart from base effects,
that the housing market and and consumer
confidence will be a better story in
2026?
>> I think the consumer story is probably
easier to tell because
if we look at
over the past 2 years, there was this
kind of
self-feeding vicious circle between the
corporate sector and the consumer
sector. The corporate sector was not
hiring, so consumer confidence was weak.
And then consumer confidence weak,
demand was weak, then corporate sector
was not hiring. So now you have this
kind of, you know, very vicious circle
between these two, self-feeding.
Um but now we are beginning to see some
evidence that corporate sector hiring
intention began to improve.
Um so across the board, you know, even
when I was in China talking to some uh
some to uh to the business community, uh
my sense is confidence is slightly
better than my previous trips. So I
think if that changes, I think I do
think there are high odds of this being
changed, uh then the vicious feedback
loop between the corporate sector and
consumer sector will begin to um
uh to to to to reverse. So I think
that's to me I think that's a kind of uh
uh higher odds event. Uh on the housing
sector, the simple fact is the the
housing sector kind of contracted for
over 4 years.
Uh housing starts have contracted by
over 70 80%. So nothing falls forever,
uh right? So I think that's why even we
even we do not consider this kind of,
you know, base effect, I suspect uh we
are a very close we are a lot closer to
the bottom than, you know, another 10%
down.
>> Yen Wong, appreciate the insights. And
of course, thank you for the company
this year. We'll talk to you next year
again. Yen Wong, chief EM and China
strategist there at Alpine Macro.
Commodities in focus today, you have oil
bid, precious metals even more so. Maybe
on this story we're talking about next,
as the US intensifies its blockade on
Venezuela, let's call it the
geopolitical risks coming back in ever
so slightly. Details [music] on that
story coming up next. And counting down
to the open of trade, the Monday open,
Shanghai, Shenzhen, and here in Hong
Kong futures are pointing higher. This
is the China show.
>> [music]
>> All right, as we've been talking about
here, oil is underway up also across the
precious metal space. Bloomberg's been
told that the US is still pursuing this
third oil tanker near Venezuela. Let's
get to the the details on what we know
so far in the story and bring in our oil
trading reporter Romaine Neil
in Singapore for us. Get our viewers up
to speed. What happened over the
weekend, sir?
>> All right. So, David, like you
rightfully mentioned that the US
authorities are still in pursuit of a
third tanker. And this comes shortly
after they've boarded a second tanker on
Saturday and after an earlier seizure
this month. So, this comes as like all
these moves don't come as a surprise
because the Trump administration had
actually ordered a blockade of vessels
going out of Venezuela. And this comes
as the Trump administration is ramping
up pressure on the Maduro administration
by crippling one of its largest
revenue-generating stream, which in this
case the oil trade. Now, of course,
if this goes on and Venezuela's oil
exports are curbed, what could happen is
that its oil storage facilities in the
country will start to fill. And
eventually, Venezuela may be forced to
close down some of its oil wells. But I
would say across the escalating actions
over the weekend by the US
administration on Venezuela, what really
took us by surprise was the fact that
the second tanker that they boarded in
this case, this tanker called the
Centuries,
it's actually not on any official
sanction list. And the oil that this
tanker is carrying is actually owned by
a Chinese company. So, what this action
could actually hint at is the fact that
the US administration is not only
ramping up pressure on the exporters and
the oil exports coming out from
Venezuela, but this could very well hint
at the fact that the US administration
could also ramp up pressure further
downstream, which in this case are the
oil buyers.
>> All right. How much upside potential is
there in oil markets? Just very quickly,
sir.
>> All right. So, potential upside
definitely it will be slightly bullish.
Now, that's also because of the fact
that Venezuela is home to the largest
known oil reserves globally. But, we do
have to note that the Venezuelan oil
trade is uh quite a peculiar and quite
uh
uh we would sometimes call it like a
two-tier market. That's because oil
coming out from Venezuela typically only
goes to two buyers. In this case, the US
and China. Now, Venezuela has uh
actually been sanctioned for a bit uh
for quite a while across the years. And
the only reason why the US is able to
take oil is because uh its company
Chevron has been granted a license uh to
kind of uh supply uh Venezuelan oil back
into the country. Uh
so, um this whole sanctions uh has
actually made the trade quite
convoluted. So, uh it's not likely to
have a much higher impact on the wider
oil markets because of its very nature.
>> All right. Thank you, sir. Wong Wei Neo
there out of Singapore for us. Hang Seng
Index half of 1% to the upside last we
checked. [music] April preview of the
Monday session is just ahead.
All right. Welcome back. [music] As we
approach the opening bell, we're called
higher across this uh this equity
market. Loan prime rate, [music] in case
you missed it, kept unchanged
in December. Plenty more ahead,
including the open. This is the China
show.
>> [music]
>> Good morning. Welcome back. You're
watching the China show says we are
close to wrapping up
2026.
We're looking at gains still. So,
the question mark actually the headline
suggests we're still hoping for [music]
a Santa Claus rally. Aren't we getting
one?
Uh
quite a decent
sequence of gains already going into the
open today. Volumes obviously are going
to [music] be on the thinner side as we
approach of course
Christmas and on to the new year, but
that is just to say price price has been
>> [music]
>> uh on your side when you look at markets
like Japan for example is doing well.
Taiwan is doing well. That's a chip
story. Within the chip story there's
more threats coming up 1% [music] on the
upside. Big announcement over the
weekend. We'll talk more about that in a
moment. And so the reason I sort of
caveat price is while price maybe has
yet to break out of recent ranges when
you look at Hong Kong for example, what
has been sort of your sliver of solace
is is a measure of implied ball has been
hitting new lows. In fact, four and a
half year low now on the Hang Seng Vol
Index which basically goes to show while
people aren't too excited overall over
price, people aren't overly worried
about what's going on so far. Onshore
half of 1% to the upside. We are going
to get PMIs of course as we wrap up the
next two weeks or so.
Um and we are also looking at a stronger
fixing and we are closer to seven of
course 703 right now on dollar China. Uh
flip the page please and just also to
mention here no change to the one and
five year loan prime rate about 30
minutes back. That's for December. Uh
our folks at Bloomberg Economics and I
believe they should not be alone in this
call do expect for lower rates uh over
the next couple of months or so. Right.
Speaking of Hong Kong, Hang Seng China.
Here's what's interesting. I'll get you
a chart in a moment here. Half of 1%. We
did see that when on a weekly basis.
Here we go on your screens, right? First
red circle. That is the week of
liberation day and the low of that week
took us to about
the 50-week moving average. Now, the
start of well, this time last week,
Monday and Tuesday were challenging
when you look at price itself, and we
did a similar dynamic that where we
bounced off that similar 50-day. That is
just to say the uptrend does continue
despite the fact that we have been range
bound of late.
The other thing I mentioned earlier on,
let's bring up a 5-year look at the Hang
Seng Volatility Index, and it were now
at the lowest in over 4 years in that
17.3
on the VHSI. So, that is a good setup
going into 2026 given a sort of catalyst
we're still waiting for as far as the
cyclical recovery in the economy is
concerned. That circles back now to
geopolitics, which going into this year
was front and center, not to say that
it's not going to be going into next
year, but perhaps less so, and a
reminder of that
are possible blacklist additions, some
of the names putting up on your screens.
Right now, as far as the Pentagon list
of Chinese companies that they say are
tied to the Chinese military. More
threats, we talked about that, and some
of its suppliers 1% last we checked, and
more threats suppliers coming up as
well. On your screens, are we getting
any sort of market reaction to that
story? Not so much, but of course on the
stock itself, we're up 3 and 1/2%. And
some of the debuts today here in Hong
Kong, I believe three or four on your
screens very shortly. And it has been a
good year, of course, for these stocks,
and more threats, of course, you
remember about two two three three weeks
back had a four and a half
450 plus percent move that instant
A-share market, and oh, okay, there we
go. That's Christmas for you. red side
of things, we're down across these
listings here, trading debuts
specifically here today. Okay, let us
pivot slightly. So, we talked about In
fact, you know what? I'll put the chip
story and the listing story together for
you right now. This rush to the IPO
market raising funds among the chip
makers that are key, of course, to the
nation's goal
of being self-reliant as far as
technology goes. There's a global race
in terms of AI supremacy. Sam Li Cha,
our Asia equity reporter is here to put
everything together for us. And you have
this massive rush to raise money. What's
going on?
>> Yeah, just like you mentioned, MetaX, um
it had 755%
pop on the first trading day, right? And
you know, following uh more threads. So,
there is that huge insatiable demand
from onshore retails to participate in
the in these IPOs, right? So, we see
that and we see a lot of that
oversubscription in numbers. And that's
why we are seeing so many of uh that
rush into these IPOs. But of course, for
the companies themselves, this is just
the best time to bank on this AI frenzy,
right? And um it's the timing is just
great. And um some of them are looking
to looking for secondary listings. And
uh for them, it's just the best time to
um raise some funds, you know, to
actually boost some of their R&D. Uh but
also, this is just the right time to
list their stocks.
>> Yeah, and you know, people are
scrambling for an allocation for these
IPOs, right? Given the sort of 400-plus
moves percent moves. So, give us some
names. Who who who do I call my broker
for a hopefully an allocation for? Me,
of course. That's That's figurative.
>> Sure. So, local media have been talking
about these like four little dragons in
this GPU space, right? So, we have
MetaX, Moore Threads, but Biren
Technology, for instance, and the
Iluvatar CoreX are one of those little
dragons. And they are the ones that are
actually contenders uh the domestic
contenders to Nvidia um in China. And
some of these stocks are, you know,
they're looking at uh Hong Kong
listings. Um and we have been seeing so
many reports about them. Um now, we have
um Yangtze Memory and um
uh the um Changxin Memory on the memory
side. So, DRAM and NAND makers, which
had for long time long period of time
has been dominated by Samsung and SK
Hynix.
These are on the memory side. Now, we
have Kulun Shen, which is the AI chip
arm of Baidu. And Baidu hasn't been
doing very well this this year in terms
of stocks performance, but it's rallied
so much ever since that that news that
it is aiming to
go Hong Kong IPO for for the Kulun Shen
the chip arm. And we have companies like
Montage or Giga Device. These are
the stocks or the companies that sit in
the picks and shovels of the whole AI
supply chain. They're all aiming to
you know go second listing in Hong Kong
each to raise about 1 billion.
>> Yeah, here we go with some of those
names. And you know, this is really a
group of stocks that investors have
fallen in love with as China builds its
AI ecosystem. The opposite of that are
consumer stocks, right? The longest ever
streak of underperformance against what
the benchmark. Is there more pain ahead
or is this an opportunity to get in and
realize some of the value here?
>> Yeah, so the biggest change is the
consensus is that this is not just a
cyclical slowdown. So, it's not going to
rebound quickly, but it could be a
multi-year of these lull that we're
seeing. And we see that in CSI onshore
staples or consumer staples names that
are down significantly 4%, but that
compared to the benchmark CSI 300, which
is up 16%, that is a stark divergence.
So, it's kind of like the companies that
are targeting the average Chinese
consumers are just not doing well. And
we see we see that in the liquor names
like Moutai and Wuliangye, who have been
the proxies for Chinese
economy and wealth. You know, they have
slumped so much. Wuliangye is down over
20% YTD.
And we see that in the same names and
autos or in
you know appliance makers like Midea or
BYD, they're all flat or down. So, that
kind of tells you that that trading
programs like the over $40 billion
stimulus that we have seen from China in
2024, they have a boosted that demand
back then, but it hasn't created new
consumption. But again, there is corners
of opportunities. The new consumption
names like toys and pet products or your
favorite like milk tea chains, they're
continuing to do well.
>> Yeah. Looks like you're outlining my my
usual weekend there. Sammy, thank you so
much. Yeah, and the the full screen
when the chart makes that What is that?
Now an alligator profile chart pattern.
Um, that might be That's banter, of
course. There we go. That's just to
show, of course, the the recent
underperformance.
Uh, they move in tandem, but of course
in 2025, one has gone the opposite way
of the other forming, of course, that Is
it alligator or is it a crocodile? I
don't even know the difference. Anyway,
thank you so much, Sammy. Ciao there.
Uh, now just some more details on some
of the stories that we were just talking
about there with Sammy, right? So, you
have Shanghai Peer and Tech, it's an AI
chip maker there. It's seeking up to
$623 million in a Hong Kong IPO. The
filing says that the company will offer
247 million shares,
>> [music]
>> 17 Hong Kong dollars a pop. Trading is
set to begin January 2nd. Now, Chinese
chip makers have been rushing, as we
talked about there, to list in a bid to
raise funds as Beijing makes tech
self-reliance a key
priority. Now, Chinese open AI
challenger Zhirpu, [music] it has filed
an IPO prospectus with Hong Kong Stock
Exchange after clearing its listing
hearing. The 6-year-old startup has
already completed eight rounds [music]
of financing. Eight. Wow, okay. Raising
$1.2 billion. Its co-founder [music]
told us earlier this month it was making
progress in convincing Chinese customers
to pay for AI.
Now, Singapore-based investment firm GLP
[music]
is said to have selected banks for its
Hong Kong IPO, which may happen as soon
[music] as the first half of next year.
Our sources say banks include
City, [music] Morgan Stanley. Although
details have not been finalized, GLP
invests in sectors including digital
infrastructure, logistics, and renewable
energy.
Right, just ahead, a closer look at
biotech Beijing-based Hong Kong-listed
Jacob Biopharma signed a licensing deal
for AstraZeneca for a new [music] for
the distribution of a new cancer drug.
We'll speak exclusively with a co-CEO
coming up next. This is the China Show.
Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Right, welcome back. You're watching the
China Show. We have Chinese biotech firm
uh
based in Beijing, listed here in Hong
Kong, Jacob Biopharma stock on your
screen. It's been down about 12% today.
Uh not very liquid, of course. Uh that
is just to say, of course, things could
likely get better uh in terms of the
company's prospects. The company said it
has entered its its global exclusive
license agreement with AstraZeneca for
an ex- uh experimental cancer drug.
Joining us exclusively to talk us
through the prospects in terms of
development and at some point
commercialization of this is Andrea Wang
Gillam, Jacob Biopharma's co-CEO, chief
medical officer, and global head of R&D.
A lot of hats, Andrea. Thank you so
much. Good morning from the Asia
Pacific. Thank you for joining us. So,
talk You guys signed this when, and what
does this deal allow you What do you get
out of this deal specifically?
>> Yeah, thank you. We signed the deal
yesterday, actually. Uh with AstraZeneca
co-developed our KRAS G12 uh pan KRAS
inhibitor. What this deal allowed us to
do is the AstraZeneca will have the
exclusive licensing to develop the drug
extra China and to help a global uh
development and eventually
commercialization globally. It provided
us a hundred million up front payment
which allowed us to uh continue to
invest our R&D in China. Uh on the top
of that actually interesting we are due
co-developing co-commercializing our pan
KRAS inhibitor in China
uh which also help us to eventually
commercialize in China.
>> Okay. So, we'll we'll talk about the
commercial aspect in a moment because
I'm curious to see what exclusively
remains solely under your purview in
terms of the benefits commercially and
what what what then goes to the partner
but can you talk to us a little bit more
maybe in in I know you're chief medical
officer and global head of R&D but if
you could just simplify that for us
uh what the pan KRAS inhibitor
uh product what does this do and on when
you look across the competitive space do
you see any potential competitor to
this?
>> Yeah. Um so KRAS actually it's a gene.
KRAS changes actually occurred up to 23%
of cancer patients their tumor have this
particular genetic changes and with this
enlarge the cancer grow faster and also
make the cancer move metastases. So,
it's a really important oncological
target. We developed this drug to try to
block this signal uh transduced by RAS
and this actually implication in about a
2.3 million uh patients uh yearly uh
global global wise. So, it's a really
important drug. Um global landscape
there's definitely competitors um but we
are the first a small molecule
um one of the first a small molecules to
enter the oncology space for
for this particular targeting in KRAS.
>> Understood. Well,
partly because okay, I'm I'm not a
medical person, but yes, okay, thank you
so much for for for clarifying that
first. Okay.
When So, you're now in if I understand
it correctly and correct me if I'm
wrong, phase one trials,
if all goes to plan with the money that
you have now that allows you to develop
this and of course the partnership and
expertise from your new partner, when
realistically do you expect this to
become commercial commercially
available?
>> Uh we especially we anticipate probably
in a few years
globally.
>> Okay, well, a few years could be in two
or 10. Is it closer to two or closer to
10?
>> uh probably in five years.
Yeah, in the between.
>> Okay, let's split the difference. Split
the difference. Okay.
Okay. Can I just ask you as well? So,
the I'm just reading through the press
briefing and pardon my my attention to
detail here. This is probably just my
press hat. Uh so, I notice here that the
and I'm just going to paraphrase for our
viewers here,
the under the terms of the agreements,
you are your company's eligible for
commercial milestone payments of up to
US dollars 1.915
billion. Is that another way of saying
that is the upside that is capped as far
as the
uh ex-China business is concerned
because of what this agreement uh does.
>> Yeah.
Um this is more and then also additional
we'll get a royalties. So,
>> Okay. Okay. So, it's it's this plus plus
any royalty.
Tiered royalties. Okay. How big How big
do you think the domestic market will be
for this drug? What What are the initial
estimates?
>> Um it is a very big market, I I think.
It is a very big market because
targeting 90% of pancreas cancer, you
know, 30-40% of colorectal cancer and
also 30% in that small cell lung cancer.
So, I think it's a
tremendous market. Initially and
estimate initially was estimated
we will have a 100 um
100 million. So, I'm sorry, 200 billions
[clears throat]
global global market. Domestically would
be actually a big part of it.
>> Understood. Since you mentioned
specifically pancreatic cancer and a lot
of people know
as you know
this is one of the types of cancers that
is very very difficult to detect and you
know, one once you have a information
that you do have that that's usually not
not not not very good news.
Help us understand how this might
actually change people who eventually
find out that they have pancreatic
cancer and does this increase their
chances?
>> Yeah.
Patient with a pancreatic cancer
actually have 50% patient with
pancreatic cancer at the time of
diagnosis they have metastatic disease
already and so for this drugs we plan to
bring to the early
early settings which once they diagnose
potentially they can be treated with
this oral drug rather than chemotherapy.
Eventually even the early stage even
when patient have tumor resected they
potentially potentially can be tested
out to use this drugs. So, we really
going to be improve the outcomes of
patient with pancreatic cancer
eventually hopefully cure pancreatic
cancer.
>> Understood.
Can I just last final questions with
final couple of questions for you here?
So, I'm just looking at
So, you mentioned in 5 years. So,
clearly if that's the base case this
drug will not be contributing to
financial performance next year even 2
years from now.
The market just wants to get a sense of
how big the company gets over the very
short term.
Uh some of your revenues in 2023,
63 million, this is RMB, 156 million
last year.
What does that number likely look like,
full year number for this year,
revenue-wise? And what is your target
for 2026? If you can share some of that
information with us.
>> Yeah. So, um again, so I think of those
information to continue we'll be
improving for 2026. And we anticipate
receiving the 100 million 2026. So, I
think that will be the booster for our
financial uh financial strengths. And
so, I think of that will be the most of
the coming, you know, for the 2026. It
will be that up front.
>> Okay, and can I Can I ask you directly,
when do you think the company will be
profitable?
>> Uh that's a good question. Well,
hopefully we'll be profitable in a few
years, at least.
And uh as a chief medical officer, I
would say four five years.
>> Okay.
Four five Okay. Okay. Alongside
Alongside this drug. Uh maybe as a final
question since we started out, of
course, and
perhaps let me just say it's probably
safe to assume that many people are
hoping you succeed with this drug, given
of course the the nature specifically of
pancreatic cancer and the people who
find out who do have that. But, what are
the risks that you see as chief medical
officer of getting this through
the trials and hopefully becoming
commercially available in 5 years? What
are specific risks that markets uh
should be paying attention to?
>> Yeah. It's a very competitive landscape.
So, that's why we partnered with
AstraZeneca for global,
you know, approval. So, acceleration
acceleration of global development and
future commercializations.
I think that the that's the the risk is
actually the competitive landscape of
this. So, we have seen already signals
and we are very confident from the drug
of safety efficacy profile. We don't
really have any concerns. But, I think
it's really the competitive landscape.
>> We'll take that as good news for
everyone in the world. Andrea, thank you
so much for the time. Andrea Wong Gillam
there, co-CEO, chief medical officer,
global head of R&D at Jacob Biopharma.
Right, just very briefly before we just
head to a short break and talk more, I
imagine, about this in a moment. Spot
gold has now surpassed the peak that we
had a few weeks back. We're set to hit a
fresh record high on spot specifically.
So, we'll talk about that in a moment.
Plus, of course, if you're a subscriber,
you can rewatch the interview we just
did.
TV goes to function you run for our
clients. Become part of the
conversation.
Check it out. TV go. This is The China
Show and this is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. Here are some of the
stories we're tracking at this point.
[music]
President Trump has announced deals with
nine more pharmaceutical companies here
in a bid to lower drug prices for some
Americans.
The agreements with companies including
Sanofi and GSK here coming exchange for
a three-year reprieve from threatened
tariffs. Now, the latest pledges include
price cuts for low-income earners and
[music] matching of international
prices.
Now, Disney's Avatar: [music] Fire and
Ash has has debuted at the top of the
Chinese box office earning almost $58
million in its opening weekend. It's the
second [music] highest debut for a
foreign title this year after Zootopia
2.
Um has China's box office take has
topped $7 billion
>> [music]
>> this year exceeding already last year's
total. The top five foreign films have
generated about 850
million
dollars. Right, just for a brief look at
markets and just dance a little bit on
theme here, a little bit down here as
far as that's some of the film and movie
related stocks are concerned. So, I
would imagine this wouldn't specifically
be a function of
Avatar doing well, maybe the fact that
these some of these names have done well
over the last
couple of months or so.
Right, back to the here and now in terms
of the key themes and this next board
will actually show you a lot of the key
stories which are going across equity
markets specifically, not just in China,
but specifically across the world. So,
you have Zijin Mining and we talked
about gold, we talked about silver.
Silver hitting a new high, gold a few
minutes back set to top a new high there
4381 on spot. It topped the recent high
back in October. SMIC is a chip story. I
would imagine as a percentage that's
actually one of the bigger gainers might
be down to the the good news around the
good news around What was the company?
Oh, that announcement over the weekend.
Okay.
And okay, we're looking at Meituan.
That's also on the back of an
announcement on the weekend on platform
companies being alleviated as far as the
price pressures are concerned. And Wuxi
Bio, that's the Pentagon story and it
potentially being included, but that's
not a new story. One and a half percent
moving against the grain. A quick glance
at benchmarks and we will leave you with
a look at that as we go into [music]
a very short break and a second hour of
the China show is just ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Good morning and welcome back. You're
watching the China show. The CSI 300 on
your right, 30 minutes into the session.
Of course, a beautiful seems to be
when the skies are that clear and blue,
that probably means it's a bit it's
probably colder than it actually looks.
Uh Shanghai winter morning, if you will.
Uh in terms of market moves, we're
almost evenly split between up and down
in the CSI 300, more in favor, of
course, of gainers at this point in
time. 9/10 of 1% in terms of some of the
sector movers, telcos are doing most of
the heavy lifting. Their CSI uh is up on
price. We are up, of course, and we're
just looking to break out. 4,600 again
is that key level to watch there. Uh
let's bring in our co-pilot, Bill
Zanker. Bill is in Sydney for us. Yeah,
Bill, what's uh How was your weekend?
It's very nice to see you, number one.
And how are markets going? What are you
watching?
>> Well, I guess uh yeah, my weekend was
spent at the beach, so I guess that
tells you kind of what's happening in
terms of trading activity in in some
parts of the world and definitely in
Australia, a lot of traders are already
into their into their holiday breaks. I
was taking a look at trading volumes and
we're a bit thinner than usual here in
here in Sydney. But, overall, the
markets today, I think I think the
general story is very much around uh
maybe this prospect we're going to get
that year-end Santa Claus rally. It's
something that we've been sort of
talking about the last couple of weeks,
maybe not eventuating, but uh we did see
US stocks and the S&P 500, for instance,
ending last week higher at least erasing
its losses. And also that story is still
in big tech cuz today it's really big
tech that's moving the Asian benchmark
to the upside. You can see here gains of
nearly 1%. Uh standouts like Taiwan, for
instance, again tech heavy. And also the
Kospi there, Nikkei 22 more than 2% uh
higher, but that's also the story around
the FX markets because you take a look
at the Japanese yen, for instance, and
you had that weakness uh post the BOJ
decision on Friday. You had Governor
Ueda as well signaling that there's more
more easing ahead coming into next year.
So, very much that that good the
question or tightening rather coming
into next year, but but generally
central banks are perhaps setting up for
for at least ending their rate hiking
paths or cutting paths or or even
setting up again to have further moves
to the upside, but just keeping an eye
on on really pretty range bound actually
again just back into that holiday theme
we see for for FX traders. Commodities
though is one of the big standouts so
far on the session.
And just some of the headlines we've
seen both spot gold and silver
rallying to fresh record highs. Again,
it's those bets around what the Fed does
next. Geopolitical tensions as well
arising or factoring into this because
we actually have seen oil moving a bit
higher and that's with all of these
events geopolitical developments around
Venezuela, but also the prospects or
discussions that we see uh between the
US uh
Kiev and also Moscow uh Dave, but let's
get more and more traders are looking
for today bringing our Bloomberg and my
strategist Mark Cranfield who joins us
out of Singapore. So, Mark uh yeah,
what's what's front and center for you
in the session so far?
>> I think the the good mood that you're
seeing across asset classes today in
this Santa Claus rally getting back on
track here has really got a lot to do
with what didn't happen last week. So,
going into Last week was a big week for
central bank meetings. We got through it
all pretty smoothly and the the biggest
risk to risk assets going something
going wrong before year end was really
the yen. So, there was a Some people
were holding back a bit thinking that
the the Bank of Japan meeting they were
expected to raise interest rates and the
uncertainty was how would yen traders
respond to that? Would there be a repeat
of what we saw in 2024 when the yen
there was massive short covering after a
BOJ interest rate hike. Huge yen short
covering that triggered a massive sell
off across asset classes. Didn't last
very long, couple of weeks, but it was
very very damaging. Well, that didn't
happen. We got through to Bank of Japan
meeting and actually the yen weakened
slightly. Huge sigh of relief
across markets because all those people
who've got carry trades on with the yen,
all those are using as leverage for
other things,
they can all sit back and say, "Thank
goodness it's out the way. We can get on
with equities and commodities and all
those other things." And that's what
you're seeing today. Silver, platinum
all rallying hard, equity markets in a
very good mood, and bond markets pretty
tame. So, nothing really to to get
people too worried. So, it's really a
lot to do with the fact that the yen did
not have a big rally last week, and it
doesn't look as though it's in store for
the near future, either.
>> Mark, maybe maybe just a little bit on
that. So,
I mean,
the two-year Japanese bond yield, maybe
just as a an example of the broader uh
melt-up we're seeing just about across
the curve
uh curve on JGBs, you know, two years up
uh 1.13. That's quite a spike. The
10-year, we took I think the 2% handle
out last year.
At what point, and I think you alluded
to this just as you wrapped up there
that not anytime soon, but at what point
do higher yields mean
a strong a a stronger currency?
>> It's really about the the pace and being
reinforced by single central bank
language as well. So, the the issue here
is that Governor Ueda spoke on Friday.
He did say that it looks as though a
neutral rate is maybe a bit higher than
people were expecting before. Instead of
1%, maybe it's closer to 1 and 1/2,
somewhere around there.
The problem is
he hasn't given any timeline about when
he intends to get there. And it was a
torturous process
raising interest rates last week, needed
the backing of all the Japanese
politicians, especially the Prime
Minister.
It took such a lot of work to get there
and he's suggesting there's a lot more
work to do if he wants to raise interest
rates again next year.
So [clears throat] from a trader's point
of view, you're telling them it's going
to be a very long drawn-out process.
Inflation is still around 3% 2-year
Japanese yields are only just above one.
That gap is very significant. We've got
a 2-year JGB auction coming up on
Christmas Day of all things.
That's going to be pretty tough to get
off the ground as well. So
while while you have the negative rates
and they don't look as though that's
going to change for a long time, that's
not very encouraging for fixed income
people. They like to see real yields.
They like to see positive carry. In the
long end of the US Treasury curve, you
can pick up a little bit of positive
carry. You cannot do that in the
Japanese curve.
>> Okay, watching for Christmas. Santa
Claus rally
meets the widow maker.
Mark Handley, put on your teeth, Mark
Handley there. Uh our EM live strategist
in Singapore for us. Uh
I look at Chinese stocks, chip stocks
specifically right now. So we have more
threads, more threads
up to 1/2% off highs a little bit. Some
of the
uh
the fabs as you can see on your screens.
Cambricon, of course, designer 1 and
1/2% to the upside here. The big news
really on the weekend is really down to
the top name you see on your screens
here. The company introducing this new
generation of chips aimed at reducing uh
dependence among AI developers on
Nvidia. Min Min Lau, our China
correspondent, is here and sat with us
to talk us through the new products and
how they actually compare to what Nvidia
currently offers the market.
>> Yes, so Moore's Threads has introduced
two new generations of chip and the
Huashan chips, named after a Chinese
mountain, by the way. Uh the CEO says
that this chip is better than Nvidia's
Hopper series, the H100 and H200, and
it's closing the gap with the current
Blackwell series. So again, this is
something that is incredibly significant
for China because it is narrowing the
gap with the US and it also eliminate
eliminates the the reason for Chinese
companies to buy Nvidia chips after
Nvidia got approval to sell the H200 to
China.
The company Moore Threads also launched
this or announced the launch of this new
graphics processing chip Lushan, which
they say can have 15% or 15 times better
performance on gaming. It also launched
this new uh
architecture GPU architecture that can
link 100,000 chips together in this
supercomputer cluster.
And that's said to be 10 times more
energy efficient and have 50% increase
in computational power as well.
>> That's the ideal scenario. What are the
bottlenecks that the company is facing?
What are those bottlenecks?
>> Yeah, so a variety of factors. So, one
of course is the foundries. Right now,
they still have limited access to the
advanced lithography equipment. So,
SMIC, for instance, for instance, can
only make um
their ability to make 2 nanometers or
sub-2 nanometers chips are still very
limited.
Um and another factor is also that Moore
Threads uses its own proprietary
computing software called Musa, which is
positioned as an equivalent to Nvidia's
software called CUDA. So, then companies
wanting to use Moore Threads chips,
they have to go through they have to,
you know, adapt some of their software
to integrate with Moore Threads
technology. So, there's a bit of an
adaptation cost there.
And of course, when it comes to that AI
architecture linking 100,000 chips, that
depends a lot on the interconnectivity,
right? The hardware and the chips that
allow them to communicate with one
another, the end-to-end bandwidth,
whether it can allow, you know, smooth
processing of huge amounts of data.
All of that is very dependent on how it
actually works when it's being
implemented, and we don't have details
about how that looks like yet.
>> It's interesting as well, I think just
on that on that point around capacity
constraints. I mean,
a lot of different chip makers in China
have signaled that they want to increase
production capacity next year. Huawei
for instance, can bring on a single in
more more threads now, but what about in
terms of the geopolitical tensions as
well? And this is a bit of a broader
question, but but we have seen these
agitations maybe for the Pentagon list
to be updated and and to have more
Chinese names added to that. What are we
hearing on this front?
>> That's right. So, we have Republican
lawmakers lobbying for at least 19 more
Chinese companies to be listed on the
Pentagon list. That would then suggest
that these companies have ties with the
Chinese military. So, among them include
Deep Seek, the robotics firm Unitree,
Wuxi as well, which is a pharma company.
HuaHong is also on that list as well.
And so, it's pretty wide-ranging. Of
course, it really depends whether the
Pentagon will take into consideration
what the US Republican lawmakers are
asking for. What it eventually does is
it doesn't result in a ban to work with
these companies. Well, the Department of
Department of Defense can't work with
those companies if they're on the list,
but US companies, I guess for them it's
a warning signal about the risk of being
associated with these companies. So,
it's it's going to be quite bad for
these companies if they want to expand
overseas or work with overseas
suppliers.
And I know for example that Hikvision
had once was one of those companies that
got off the list. They sued the Pentagon
saying that they have no ties with the
military. They got off the list, but
then they were immediately relisted
after that. And it really shows you how
sticky that label is. It's been very
hard to fight against the Pentagon.
>> Um let me let me just a quick mention.
I'm looking at
Meituan shares are up. I think we're up
a fourth day. It's coming up on your
screens for our viewers here. What do we
know about the
tightening oversight over price
competition? How does that work?
>> the Chinese regulators have come up with
a new set of rules for the platform
companies because they have a lot of
power over these small mom-and-pop sort
of merchants that list on the companies.
So, the the rules the new rules now
state that these platform companies
cannot require or place unnecessary
restrictions on merchants to govern
their pricing on other rival platforms.
And they cannot punish these merchants
by raising their fees or delisting their
products or making their products less
visible to consumers. So, this is meant
to protect the smaller merchants to
ensure fair competition. Part of the
rules is also to ensure that promotions
are clearly listed and there are no
exaggeration of these promotions as well
so that consumers are not conned into
buying certain things. So, it's all
about increasing transparency and
protecting the smaller players to help
stabilizing to stabilize their margins
and
create a sustainable growth for for the
sector.
>> Mim Men, thank you so much. Mim Men Low
our China correspondent there. Just
ahead here on the China show, we'll have
a look at fixed income markets likely
supply coming through in the offshore
space and the outlook for 2026
with CICC.
That's coming up next. This is the China
show and [music] this is Bloomberg.
You know what? It's been a really good
year
if you're in emerging markets. Not just
in stocks, right? You look at
currencies, you look at the terrible
year the dollars had, you look at the
capital flows we've seen across EM cross
asset, right? I think we have In fact,
we have a we have a specific measure
here at Bloomberg that has a look really
at capital flows in EM. So, we have
fantastic piece and a shout out to our
colleagues at Bloomberg News who have
put out this story for you. It's on the
terminal if you're curious by the way
what it looks like, but we put together
the key takeaways on a graphic for you
in this banner year
for EM equity markets, right? The most
capital flows in about 16 years since
2009.
It's not a coincidence that of course
the dollar has been on the softer side.
It's the worst year for this is
specifically the Dixie, the DXY in about
8 years or so.
The
fixed incomes have done very very well.
Credit for example and the spread over
treasuries has tightened to the
narrowest in about 11 years or so and a
measure of carry trade, well, strat
profits tied to carry
to the carry trade are also back to the
highest in about since 2009. So, you can
check that story out for our clients of
course. It's on the terminal. It's also
on bloomberg.com. And that takes us very
nicely
into our next guest in the outlook for
fixed income given the macro outlook and
what does it mean for RMB issuers going
forward. Joining us here on set, Jinissa
Jia,
investment banking MD and head of
offshore debt capital markets at CICC.
Good morning.
>> Good morning, David.
>> Very nice to see you. So,
going into next year, the Fed's told us
well, they've cut twice. They're not
sure if they're going to go all the way.
They're data-dependent. So, the dollar
does remain relatively a higher yielding
currency relative to say where we are
here in the Asia Pacific. How does it
affect your work? What are the big
things that you're looking out for next
year?
>> Yeah. Um well, thanks very much for
having me, David. I'm very glad to be
here. Um I think as a DCM banker in the
market, my job is actually to create
transactions and bring multi-currency
deals into this market. Uh what I've
seen from this development of the
interest yield curve here, as you said,
dollars is on the path to do this
interest rate cut while at the same time
the uh you know, the convergence of the
rates, the differential between the
rates between different central banks
and US will be uh more and more clear
into next year as the gap between this
yield differential will narrow
significantly, especially when the US
Fed they cut rates maybe at a higher
pace than the Central Bank of China,
that will actually closer the gap
between these two central government
yield curves. And I think that will
create more opportunities for these bond
markets, and we might see some comebacks
of the dollar transactions from greater
China regions into this market, which
has been decreasing significantly for
the past you know, three to four years.
We had a outstanding volume of China DCM
at roughly $1 trillion at peak in 2021.
Now this figure has dropped
significantly to more than $600 billion
in the market. So the greater China
investors have a a lot of reinvestment
risk for them with a shortage of this
$400 billion. So that's a trend I think
we could watch for next year. And in the
meanwhile, because of the stability of
the currency of the Chinese yuan, and
also the resilience of the economy that
China has demonstrated, you know, during
this you know, the tariff situations
this year especially, I think the yuan
markets will also be booming because the
demand will not only come from the
domestic issuers and investors, but also
we see the diversifications from outside
of China. For example, this year in the
dim sum bond market, which is the
offshore bond market of Chinese yuan, we
have seen a significant increase of
international issuers worldwide from the
Singapore, from the government of
Indonesia, from Europe like OTPP Bank
from Central Asia like the Development
Bank of Kazakhstan, the KazMunayGas from
Kazakhstan. All these diversified
issuers came to Hong Kong to tap the dim
sum bond market. I think it's a it's a
very interesting case to establish here.
And also if you look at some deals that
happened this year in Hong Kong, one
interesting deal is with the China MoF
US dollar deal that we actually lead the
underwritings of that
deal. right? deal. We we more of that?
More subs? More subs in this one next
year in dollars?
>> I think China moth priced a $2 billion
USD bond in the market for 3 year.
>> Okay.
>> And then if you look at the credit
spreads to US dollars it's actually
zero. So the deal was priced at Treasury
plus zero credit spreads for the 3 year
and Treasury plus one basis point for
the 5 year transfer with a total deal
size of a 4 billion across in two
tranches. If you look at the stats even
at a zero spread we attracted more than
40% of the investors from central banks
worldwide and guess what happened in the
secondary markets the bond was traded
below the Treasury in the 20 negative 20
basis points something like that.
>> Okay.
>> Some argue that was driven by the you
know tax yield from the greater China
investors but this links to another
story from the greater China investors
side. As you know the current interest
rates environment was you know still the
China has a very low interest rates
environment so currently the 10 year CDB
bonds in China is only like 1.8%
while the US 10 year Treasury is like
4.1% so this
gap between these two rates actually
creates a lot of demand from greater
China investors to diversify the
investments in the offshore markets.
>> Okay. We've opened up a lot of doors.
That's a lot of information. So
one of one things that stood out to me
is you could shed a lot of light on this
is
across these multiple fronts where does
supply look to be the most active in the
first
first quarter of next year? Which
specific market? Which specific currency
under under your specific watch?
>> I think we see in APAC markets given you
know China has always been a very big
player which you know accounts for you
know roughly 50% of the supplies.
>> Okay.
>> So I believe the trend will continue
into next year but you will see more and
more issuance in the dollar space but
may not in the plain vanilla bonds but
also probably the convertible bonds
increasing the supply in the convertible
bonds given the upside of the equity
stories as well as the relatively high,
you know, yield in dollar we're still uh
sustaining the next year.
And then we'll see a diversified supply
actually for the dim sum market is maybe
from regions from Southeast Asia, from
Middle East, from Central Asia. I think
the logic behind for people to seeking
for diversification is actually not only
to get a cheaper funding source from the
diversification into RMB, but also to um
you know, get a sustainable new market
markets to borrow. For example, in the
case of the government of Indonesia
>> pool? Just to ask you on that.
Uh because you're tapping a new investor
base to your price, right? So, how how
how deep is how how deep can that market
get in terms of liquidity?
>> Yeah, that's a very good question,
David. I think speaking of the dim sum
market this is still a growing market
and it's still I'd say infant or baby
stage as compared to dollars or euros or
the, you know, hard currencies markets,
but we have seen some really
trend trend on the diversifications not
only come from the international
investors who has gaining, you know,
momentum in playing in the RMB bond
products, but also the keenness of the
domestic investors who are keen to
deploy their capital from onshore to
offshore. I'm not sure if you heard
about the mechanism we call Southbound
Connect Scheme, which is basically the
infrastructure that links the China
market with the Hong Kong market via the
CMU mechanism and the onshore investors
can therefore invest in the offshore
bond markets primarily in the CNH
products through this mechanism directly
without any transaction cost and we
believe this pool of investments will
further deepen next year. And this year
we're already seeing like a 700 billion
to 800 billion RMB worth of
capitals coming to Hong Kong to support
the markets.
>> One more interesting that I hope you
could talk about this. This is
interesting for global viewers. The the
dichotomy between
onshore rates where They're They're
Let's just call it they're very very low
and the preference is certainly lower
borrowing costs against somewhat higher
yield here in Hong Kong. But higher
yield, of course, when you look at the
US. What conversations are you having
with your clients in terms of If a
client is able to access both market,
what is the current preference, right,
in terms of fund-raising and why?
>> Yep.
>> Offshore onshore?
>> Yep. I I I think my clients has a two
universe, right? One is those clients
who based in China, they're doing this
cross-border fund-raising or financings
for their companies to expand either
overseas or they want to bring the money
back to China for investments.
>> Yep.
>> And the other universe of my client base
is actually international clients like
our Hong Kong clients, like our
Southeast Asian clients who are looking
for diversifications. So, I would say
the behaviors tend to be very different.
For the China clients that I can see,
because of the lower rate environments
in domestic markets, a lot of clients
actually
chose to refrain from doing US dollar
financings anymore. They go back to the
home markets and raise more bonds
issuance in the domestic markets because
Central Bank has keeping this, you know,
loose monetary policies to keep the
ample liquidity in the domestic markets,
which provide a very lower funding cost
and extension of maturity profiles for
the domestic borrowers. However, for
some of the borrowers who have
international needs to diversify or they
have an offshore project to invest and
expand globally, they will still choose
to come to the international markets to
either issue a dollar bond or issue a
dim sum bond, the renminbi bond in the
offshore markets and invest those
proceeds into their overseas projects.
>> Janessa, thank you so much for taking
the time. There's lots more to talk
about. We'll talk to you again next
year.
>> Yeah, thank you very much. Bye-bye.
>> looks like it's going to be busy the
pipeline there. Her and her team,
investment banking MD and have head of
offshore CICC. Uh very briefly a look at
equity
markets. We'll take a short break. Japan
is up 2%. This is the China show.
>> [music]
>> Taking a look at some of the movers
[music] here, we are watching gold
miners because we have seen metals
rallying to a fresh record this morning.
Gold at a at a new high, but looking at
some of those miners moving to the
upside. Also taking a look at what's
happening with Hon Hai because it's
Foxtron [music] vehicle unit is has
agreed to acquire the Taiwanese EV brand
Luxgen.
>> [music]
>> It is expected to help it expand out its
EV ambitions. Morehead, this is
Bloomberg.
>> Welcome back.
Just some news. This one has just come
in. This is in Malaysia. This
is with respect to the former Malaysian
Prime Minister Najib Razak. So, a piece
effectively lost a court bid today to
serve out the rest of his prison term
under house arrest. So, a high court has
ruled that this royal order that allowed
Najib to be placed under house arrest
was not valid and that the king cannot
decide independently
of the pardons board. That's what we
know so far. We'll leave it at that and
we'll bring you more details once we
have more information on the case. But,
the former Prime Minister, just to say
the headline has lost
his bid to serve out the rest of his
jail sentence
at home. Well,
>> Yeah, and that was it was it's slated to
end in 2028. Let's also take a look at
what's happening in Japanese markets so
because we are
moving through the morning session and
you're seeing quite strong gains here
across the board being led by the tech
sector and actually the SoftBank is one
of the biggest standouts so far in the
session. It does appear that not only
have you got those tailwinds from the US
session on Friday where we saw an
outperformance again of tech and and and
stronger performance across the board
generally, but also it's the Japanese
yen story with weakness a weakness there
that you're seeing at 157. So, SoftBank
you can see
we've got local media reporting that
they are going to be developing AI with
the private sector where Japan is
looking to develop AI with the private
sector and that does of course include
SoftBank. SoftBank really already in the
session doing well giving you saw the
likes of Oracle up 6% on Friday and both
of those companies are working closely
together
on project Stargate in the US. Uh what
else we're tracking is actually uh the
the
maker of mini motors, that's Nidec this
morning uh because we do see the
chairman of that company stepping down
or it's founder stepping down from his
position as chairman of the board. This
does follow the discovery of accounting
issues that damaged the reputation of
this company. Uh so, his quitting is is
being seen as a positive for the
business. Let's also shift though to the
7-Eleven operator 7-Eleven I because
it's pressing its US convenience store
business to deliver a faster turnaround
as the retailer seeks a public listing
of the unit. Well, spring back our
senior editor Reed Stevenson joining us
now from Tokyo. So, Reed we've been
discussing that there's a number of
different initiatives the company is
taking for this, but just uh spell them
out for us.
>> Yeah, uh essentially what uh 7-Eleven I
is doing is they're they're really
trying to kind of get the US business
going again ahead of a planned initial
public offering in the second half of
2026. Uh some of those initiatives
involve um
uh boosting its private label presence
essentially.
So, 7-Eleven branded products in the
stores with which have a higher profit
margin, larger format stores,
better management of the supply chain,
and really all of this is to sort of
create
an argument for uh potential investors
that the business still has a lot of
runway to go in you know, what is
actually a kind of a tough environment
for US uh retail at the moment.
>> Yeah, so what talk us through then that
sort of toughness we've been speaking
about for instance the the concerns
around the health of the US consumer
generally, but what are the biggest
challenges that the that the unit faces?
>> Yeah, I mean there's kind of two fronts.
I mean the first of all everything is
sort of related to inflation here. You
know, people tend to to go and look for
better deals or rather than convenience
when prices are high. So that's a
headwind against you know, any
convenience store operator in North
America at the moment. But also there's
a lot of competition.
Many of them are getting into food and
so now you're beginning to compete with
you know, fast food and and and
other outlets and then
you know, dollar stores as well
also have become sort of an alternate
option for many people when they go
looking for the things that they buy at
convenience stores. So all of that is is
sort of a headwind, but essentially
you know, the US operation for 7-Eleven
has sort of been you know, a headache
for a while. They went after scale.
That really hasn't delivered outsized
returns. So what they're really trying
to do is you know, improve the quality
of the business, raise those margins so
that they can really try and unlock
value through this initial public
offering
that they're aiming for in the latter
half of next year.
>> Yeah, so I guess up against a bit of a
timeline now. That was our Bloomberg
senior editor Reed Stevenson there in
Tokyo for us. So yeah, one of the big
listings we'll track next year, Dave.
>> Something among many other things we're
looking forward to there.
I just an update here some major stories
we're tracking at this point as well
just to pivot the page here. Bloomberg
has been told that the US is
and this is on the Venezuela story has
been told
that the US is still pursuing a third
oil tanker near Venezuela as President
Trump intensifies an oil blockade on
Nicolas Maduro's government. A source
says that the Bella 1 tanker is a
Panamanian flag vessel sanctioned by the
US and the attempted [music]
interdiction here follows the boarding
that of the Centuries, that's a separate
one supertanker early in Saturday and
the Skipper back on December the 10th.
Now, President Trump's top economic
adviser says that he's says [music] a
Supreme Court ruling against the
administration's tariffs regime would
create a major admin problem. Now,
judges are currently weighing a legal
challenge to the tariffs Trump has
imposed on dozens of nations. Kevin
Hassett has says that the challenges
[music] of refunding those levies should
deter the court from ruling in that
direction.
>> We really [music] expect the Supreme
Court is going to find with us.
And I also think that if they didn't
find with us, that it's going to be
pretty unlikely that they're going to
call for widespread [music] refunds
because
it would be an administrative
problem to get those refunds out there.
But basically, whoever paid the tariff,
like actually cut the check to buy the
thing, would be the person who would be
getting the refund if there were one.
>> Now, US special envoy [music] Steve
Witcoff says that the says Trump
administration officials held productive
meetings with Ukrainian and European
counterparts [music] in Florida. He says
discussions covered the existing
20-point peace plan, a US security
guarantee [music] framework, and
economic development. Ukrainian
President Volodymyr Zelensky also called
the talks constructive, but noted that
signals from Russia remain only
negative.
Now, the US launched large-scale air
strikes on [music] more than 70 of 70
targets across Syria, fulfilling
President Trump's vow to strike back
after killing [music]
two US soldiers. Now, Central the US
Central Command said on Friday that
fighter jets, attack helicopters, and
artillery [music]
targeted ISIS infrastructure and also
weapons sites. Now, Defense Secretary
Pete Hegseth posted an X saying the move
does not mark the beginning of a war,
but is a declaration
of vengeance.
Mel.
>> Yeah, and Dave, we're also tracking
those tensions between Thailand and
Cambodia because Thailand's
military rather has reportedly
struck targets in Cambodian territory
over the weekend including bombing a
casino and a bridge. The attacks come
ahead of an ASEAN foreign ministers
meeting that's scheduled for Monday
aimed at diffusing those tensions, but
let's bring in our Southeast Asia
managing editor Katrina Nicholas who's
with us here in Sydney today, but yeah,
I mean we've we've certainly seen these
tensions flaring between the two
countries of late again. But but what
what exactly happened over these last
couple of days?
>> That's right, and this is fighting
that's been going on for about two weeks
now with with no sign of de-escalation.
So, what happened over the weekend? The
Royal Thai Air Force carried out
significant air strikes on two targets
inside Cambodia at O'Chum Bridge that
was described by Thai military sources
as a strategic supply route and also a
casino complex that was hit on Saturday
with Thailand asserting that those sites
had become bases to support Cambodia
military operations. Cambodian officials
have condemned those attacks
on civil as attacks on civilian
infrastructure.
Now, this conflict as I said, it's this
been two weeks now, it's not showing any
signs of of de-escalation. It's
displaced you know, hundreds of
thousands of civilians on both sides
about 750,000 now, and 40 people have
been killed.
And you know, increasingly Thailand is
framing parts of its its offensive as a
war on scam centers. So, that you know,
muddies the waters somewhat. It's saying
that some of these facilities,
particularly the casinos that it's
targeting, are linked to transnational
cybercrime and fraud networks. That adds
quite a complex security dimension to
what a fundamentally started as a
territorial dispute.
>> Mhm. Yes, certainly adds a new
implication, I guess, a new
justification for for their actions.
But, as we said, there's the ASEAN
foreign ministers meeting coming up
later today. What exactly we
What are What are we hoping to to see in
that? And what's likely to be achieved,
do you think?
>> Yeah. So, all eyes today on Kuala
Lumpur, that ASEAN special foreign
ministers meeting kicks off there in
about 20 minutes from now. We're
expected to last,
you know, well into the evening until we
get some resolution there. But, this is,
you know, sort of being seen as the most
tangible chance yet to secure a formal
ceasefire and to halt this recent
escalation. Diplomats hope the meeting
will sort of reinvigorate dialogue after
previous agreements have, of course,
faltered. And at least, you know,
framing the talks as being really
critical for regional stability.
>> All right. Well, then we'll watch for
the the read out later on.
Katrina Nicholas, thanks very much. That
was our Bloomberg Southeast Asia
managing editor, Katrina Nicholas,
there. And another political story that
we're tracking today, the Trump
administration is defending its move to
pull several pictures from the latest
release of documents related to Jeffrey
Epstein. An image of a desk drawer with
a number of photographs or photos,
including one showing President Trump,
was among those removed from the
department's website before being
restored. Deputy Attorney Attorney
General, that's Todd Blanche, says it
was done out of concern for Epstein's
victims.
>> You can see in that photo, there's
photographs of women. And so, we learned
after releasing that photograph that
there were concerns about those about
the those women and the fact that we had
put that photo up. So, we pulled that
photo down. It has nothing to do with
President Trump. There are dozens of
photos of President Trump already
released to the public seeing him with
Mr. Epstein. He has said that in the
'90s and early 2000s, he socialized with
him. So, the absurdity of us pulling
down a photo, a single photo, uh because
President Trump was in it is laughable.
>> Now, the latest release of the so-called
Epstein files includes thousands of
pages of pictures, phone numbers, and
notes from investigations, but with many
documents heavily redacted. Uh our Miles
Miller has more on the release and also
the reaction.
>> The Justice Department releasing a new
set of documents tied to Jeffrey
Epstein, marking the most extensive
public disclosure yet in a case that's
fueled political tension for years. The
files were posted online after Congress
passed legislation in November forcing
their release, overriding long-standing
resistance from the Trump
administration. Trump ultimately signed
the bill under pressure from Republican
lawmakers who had demanded transparency
around Epstein's case. What's new is the
scope of what's being made public. The
Justice Department releasing thousands
of pages of materials from federal
investigations into Epstein, the
financier and convicted sex offender who
died in a Manhattan jail in 2019 while
awaiting trial on sex trafficking
charges involving underage girls.
Authorities have ruled his death a
suicide. Their records include
investigative files, flight logs, travel
documents, internal Justice Department
communications, immunity agreements, and
materials related to Epstein's death.
Much of it previously sealed or only
partially disclosed. The response was
immediate with users trying to access
the documents being placed into online
queues as traffic overwhelmed the
Department of Justice website. Officials
emphasized that this is not the final
release with Deputy Attorney General
Todd Blanche telling lawmakers the
volume of materials to be reviewed meant
that it wasn't possible to meet the
law's requirement to release all files
by Friday. He said more documents are
expected in the coming weeks as
officials continue to review records to
protect victims and avoid compromising
ongoing investigations. Among the
materials released are photographs and
records involving prominent figures. One
tranche includes a photo of former
President Bill Clinton with the late
musician Michael Jackson. Clinton has
denied knowledge of Epstein's crimes.
The release carries political risk for
Trump who has acknowledged a past social
relationship with Epstein but says he
had cut ties with him decades earlier.
Earlier disclosures this year were
criticized as incomplete fueling anger
within Trump's base. With more records
still under review, Friday's release is
unlikely to be the last chapter in the
Epstein case.
>> And that was Miles Miller there with the
latest on of course [music] the big
story over the weekend. Right, just
ahead here on the China Show, Li
Ka-shing, that's the Hong Kong
billionaire of course, is well, a look
at how he's really remaking his business
[music] empire as this shift across
generations looms in his family
business. More [music] on that story
coming up and the deals really that
could reshape the future
of CK Hutchison. [music]
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. A closer look now at Hong Kong
listed CK Hutchison Group. It's set to
enter the new year with
really potentially some major changes. A
series of deals pending. It could really
reshape the future of the conglomerate
amidst this looming generational shift.
For more on the story, let's bring in
our conglomerate's consumer and gaming
reporter Shirley Zhao
with a take today. So, yeah, I guess
we'd start off with a year that's been
in how that informs us about the major
potential major changes ahead.
>> Yeah, so Li Ka-shing and his family are
planning basically three major moves for
their flagship conglomerate CK
Hutchison. So, they are considering an
IPO for their retail arm AS Watson,
which is their biggest revenue
contributor, and they are also
considering options for their telecom
businesses, including a potential
listing, as well as sales and mergers in
some markets. And of course, they are
planning to sell 43 ports globally,
which account for the majority of their
port portfolio. So, if all these deals
are completed, that would be quite
significant because CK Hutchison would
have already divested or spun off most
of its core operations, and that could
also grant the Li family a fresh war
chest to fend off global risks, as well
as preparing for future opportunities.
>> It's It's more than a facelift, right?
If If these three
simultaneous deals come come to
fruition,
do we have a I know some of these are
fairly complicated, like the ports deal,
for example, and we had covered that as
well recently. But, do we have a better
understanding of when we might see these
deals actually take come to fruition?
>> So, these deals all face pretty big
challenges. So, for example, the ports
deal has angered Beijing because of the
involvement of the US investment firm
BlackRock as a buyer, and Donald Trump
President Donald Trump has come out and
said that this is a US win over the
strategic Panama Canal because the 43
ports include two ports in Panama. So,
Beijing is unhappy, and CK Hutchison has
invited a Chinese investor,
uh biggest shipping company, Cosco, uh
into the buyer mix in the hope of
appeasing Beijing, but talks, we learned
that have slowed down recently due to
the complexity of the deal. And CK
Hutchison's executives have said that
it's unlikely for the deal to be
completed this year. And other deals
involving telecom, for example, uh will
often require antitrust scrutiny um in
terms of telecom mergers in some
markets. Uh and the retail arm listing,
CK Hutchison has actually been
considering that on and off since 2013,
but it still hasn't been able to do that
due to market volatility uh and
valuation issues. So, it's not easy to
pull this off, um but we learned from
people familiar with the matter that CK
Hutchison wanted to wanted to do these
deals because they want to unlock value
for CK Hutchison's assets. If you look
at CK Hutchison's stock, um it has
really been trading at a steep discount
um ever since 2015 when CK Hutchison as
a company came into being.
>> Mhm.
>> And um
the Li family really believes that uh
these moves can potentially reduce the
discount and lead to a completely
um reshuffle of returns for
shareholders, which of course include
the Li family, which owns 30% of CK
Hutchison.
>> Uh I was actually going to ask you about
the why and
because there there there could be a
difference between realizing value by
listing some units
and a complete pivot in terms of you
mentioned, right, core businesses and
the fact that they're
facing a lot of regulatory friction
means that they're they've gotten into
very central businesses, right? And I
wonder whether it's simply unlocking
value
or is this Is there a major pivot away,
strategic pivot into new businesses? And
what What new businesses could those be?
>> That's also a very good observations.
So, if you look at how Li Ka-shing built
his empire, um he developed really close
relationship with major banks in Hong
Kong as well as China's top leadership.
And he utilized that relationship to
expand globally. So, he By the early
2000s, he has already his empire into
the world's biggest port operator as
well as Asia the biggest Asia investor
in the European telecom sector. Um but
if you look at uh today's global
environment where his elder son Victor
is operating in, it's completely
different. So, Li Ka-shing's early bets
in sectors including ports, retail,
telecom, utilities, and infrastructure
paid off because of globalization,
because these sectors benefited greatly
from globalization. But Victor today is
facing a world where deglobalization
is increasingly becoming the theme. So,
uh observers are saying that this is a
good time for the Li family to monetize
on the giant wealth that they have built
over the past decade. And some observers
are saying that this could lead to a
sector change for CK Hutchison. Uh but
in terms of what other sectors CK
Hutchison could invest in or, you know,
is there any other use the family is
planning to for the capital that they
they may accumulate from these deals, it
remains to be seen.
>> There we go. Um the starting point, I
guess, of how conversation around how
conglomerates remain relevant
agnostic of or through generations,
let's put it that way. Surely fantastic
piece there. Uh for our client, you can
check out Shirley's piece. It's on the
terminal. It's also on the website for
you. Charlie Gao there conglomerate and
consumer and gaming reporter. Look at
markets, we're coming off highs quite
quickly. We're now flat in Hang Seng
Index. Plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back and here are some of the
corporate stories that we're tracking
today. [music] President Trump has
announced deals with nine more
pharmaceutical companies in a bid to
lower drug prices for some Americans.
The agreements with companies including
Sanofi and GSK [music] come in exchange
for a three-year reprieve from
threatened tariffs. The latest pledges
include price cuts for low-income
earners and matching [music] of
international prices.
Disney's Avatar Fire and Ash has debuted
at the top of the Chinese box office
earning almost [music] $58 million in
its opening weekend. It's the second
highest debut for a foreign title this
year after Zootopia 2. China's [music]
box office take has topped $7 billion
this year exceeding last year's total.
The top five foreign films [music] have
generated about $850
million. So, Dave, I think it's
interesting [music] cuz at the same time
you're seeing that strength in the
Chinese movie market, Chinese consumer
stocks have of certainly been one of the
standouts for the downside this year.
>> Yep. Yeah. Yeah, they have and you
got to wonder where spending two hours
watching movies. You think about it, the
time spent watching movies is about the
same time if not shorter
than
you know, the time people spend nursing
a
already quite lukewarm matcha latte at
cafes, right? And that's just to say two
hours of doing of paying something and
doing nothing.
It I guess in some ways
you could spend more.
You could find a better time spending
more for 2 hours but that is just to say
of course movie stocks are on the way
down and you know what? It's not a bad
life isn't it? Okay,
we'll leave you with a look at Hong Kong
listings today not the best
day as far as debuts are concerned. It's
been a fantastic year though and yep, we
will see you all
tomorrow. Thank you for joining us
today. You're watching
the China show.